
Learning objective 

1_ understand what is SMB is used for.
2_ Demonstrate how to enumerate SMB.

Server Message Block (SMB)

Protocol used for file sharing between devices in Microsoft Windows. Linux version is samba.


Also known as common internet file system (CIFS)

Three versions of SMB 

SMB1 : version susceptible to known attacks (Eternalblue, Wannacry). Disabled by default in newer Windows versions.

SMB 2: Reduced "chattiness" of SMB 1. Guest access disabled by default.

SMB3: Guest access disabled. uses encryption. Most Secure.


TCP port 192 is SMB over NETBIOS.
NETBIOS is a transport layer protocol designed to use in the Windows Operating system over a network.
*SMB1 supported
*Hostname must provide: \\host1\files

TCP 445 is SMB over IP. This is a newer version where SMB can be consumed normally over the IP networks 


Number of tools already in Kali to enumerate SMB: 
Nmap NSE 
enum4linux 
smbclient
rpcclient

Three common shares C$, Admin$ $, and IPC$ $
C$ = C Drive of the remote host 

Admin $ = access to Windows installation Directory.

IPC$ = inter - process communication. No access to files or directories.


Key points to consider: 
* can I access SMB as a Guest.
* Can I brute-force usernames/ passwords 
* can I read/ write to shares ones I access it to execute shells (we will talk about shells later )
* Even if you can access a flag via SMB, you need to get shell per OSCP guidelines

Nmap can be used for both enumeration and vulnerability scanning of SMB 

* An asterisks can be added to a script for all matching scripts.
* Example: Nmap <target> --script=smb-enum*

* Example: nmap <target> --script=smb-vlun
* Example: nmap <target> --script=smb-os


	Rpcclient was developed to test MS-RPC functionality by system admins. We can use it to enumerate  not only the server, but also the users of the system.
	
